All right welcome back.
In this lecture we're gonna go.
We're gonna go through a walkthrough of the implementation of the visitor pattern.
This application is going to be shopping cart type application where we can add different types of elements
or items.
So let's create a new project and let's call this one the visitor example.
So we're gonna say visitor example.
So how this is gonna work is when we click on a check up on for example it's gonna calculate the total
amount to be paid.
Obviously this isn't a graphic interface.
So we're going to trigger that.
We can have the calculation logic in the item classes or we can move them out to another class using
the visitor pattern.
And this is the preferred way of doing thing.
It's much better less coupling.
So the first thing we need to do for the shopping type application is we're gonna create different types
of items elements to be used in the shopping cart.
This is going to make up the object structure.
So let's create an interface an element interface.
So going to say new Java class we're going to say item element and this is gonna be an interface.
Now remember this is gonna define accept operation that takes a visitor as an argument.
It's the entry point which enables an object to be visited by the visitor object.
Notice that the accept method takes the visitor argument and we can have some other methods here as
well for specific items if we wanted to.
So we have our public and accept which takes a shopping cart visitor and we'll just call that visitor
and we'll have to create that shopping cart visitor class.
But first this is making up our object structure our elements let's start creating some concrete elements
for our items and the concrete elements will implement the accept operation.
That takes a visitor visitor as the argument the visitor object is path to this object using the accept
operation.
The first one we're gonna create is we're going to create a book Class.
So we're gonna say class book implements item element.
We've got a couple member variables for price
and a string for the ISBN number.
And these will be initialized in our constructor
something like this.
We're also going to have a get price method and a gate ISBN number method we then need to override our
accept method.
And so we're gonna have to say override and we're gonna say public and accept our shopping cart visitor.
And then like that and all this is gonna do as it's good and return visitor that visit and you're gonna
pass in the visit object something like that.
And so we have to go and we'll have to implement this shopping cart visitor in a second but we want
to finish implementing our item elements.
So going to create another one here this one is gonna be a fruit class we're just gonna say class fruit
implements
implements.
If I could spell implements are item element and this is gonna have three member variables one for the
price per kilogram a weight and a name so it's a little different but these elements will be stored
in a list or collection in our constructor is just gonna set up these member variables.
It's an overloaded constructor that takes three parameters we're going to have some get methods first
for our price per kilogram
and then we're also gonna have a get weight and a get name and then the accept method is gonna do pretty
much do exactly what our other item element did.
All right.
It's gonna take a shopping cart visitor as a parameter and it's gonna call the visit method on this.
But notice the implementation of this accept method.
It's calling the visit method of the visitor and passing itself as an argument notice that the implementation
of the accept method in all the items are the same but they can't be different.
For example there can be logic to check if the item is free then don't call the visit method at all.
All right.
We have the visit method for different types of items in the visitor interface that will be implemented
by concrete visitor classes.
So now let's create the visitor we're gonna say new Java class and organize a shopping cart visitor
and we're gonna make this an interface.
Remember the whole purpose of this class is it's used to declare the visit operations for all the types
of visible classes the operations name and the signature identifies the class that sends the visit request
to the visitor.
It lets the visitor determine the concrete class the element being visited so that the visitor can then
access the element directly through its particular interface.
So remember the visitors you have to have.
You have to have a visit method for each item element concrete item.
So here we're going to have to have an IT visit that takes a book and we're gonna have to have one that
takes a fruit.
So fruit.
Fruit.
Now we have to implement this interface and every item will have its own logic to calculate the cost.
So now we have to create the concrete.
Visitors write these implement the operations in the interface.
Each operation implements a fragment of the algorithm defined by for the corresponding class of the
object in the structure it provides the context for the algorithm and stores its local state and the
state often accumulates as it goes through the list.
And so we'll say class
shopping cart visitor ample for implementation implements our shopping cart visitor.
And here we're just going to override each one of these methods.
First of all override the book and remember the purpose of this is to calculate the cost.
So we have our visit method and what we're gonna do is we're gonna create a local variable and we're
going to apply a five dollar discount of the book price is greater than 50 dollars so we're gonna have
a little if statement in here.
So we're gonna keep a running tally and if the book that gate price is greater than 50 then the cost
of the book is gonna be five dollars less if it's not greater than 50.
Then we're going to calculate the cost to be equal the book price.
So cost equals book that get price.
We're going to print out information and then return the cost.
So we're just going to print out the books ISBN and the cost regardless of if it's over 50 or under
50.
And that's the implementation of the visit book.
We'll need to close this class and also make sure everything looks good and we're still RAD BECAUSE
WE HAVE TO IMPLEMENT THE FRUIT method so we don't want to close it completely.
So now we're going to override the fruit visit method when it takes a fruit as a parameter.
Something like fruit and we'll call it Fruit.
Now this again is going to calculate the cost.
This one's pretty easy.
The cost is just going to be the the price per kilogram times the weight.
So we can say it cost equals fruit to get price per kilogram times the way we're going to print out
a message and then we're going to return that cost
so we can just do something like that.
And that's the implementation of our visitors.
The last thing we need to do is we need to create the client.
So up until this point we have our items right that implement the accept method and the items are going
to be in some kind of object structure or some kind of list.
But we have a book item and we have an implement heard a fruit item in both of those had the accept
method they're going to be passed a visitor object and then we're gonna call the visit method on it.
And so the visitors are implemented right here.
Right.
Shopping Cart visible simple.
Now the last thing create the client to say new Java class we're gonna say client and remember the client
has access to the data structure objects and it can instruct them to accept a visitor to perform the
appropriate processing.
A client creates a concrete visitor object and then traverses the object structure.
The list or the collection visiting each element with the visitor when an element is visited it calls
the visitor operation that corresponds to its class.
The element supplies itself as an argument to this operation to let the visitor access at State.
So we're gonna go ahead and create a main method
that takes args.
And this is just going to create some item elements.
Right.
So some new books some new fruit elements and we're gonna put this into an array right.
Because remember we have to have an object structure so something like this created a bunch of items
we initialize them with a new book.
Another new book you'll see at the end and then two fruits.
So two two books and two fruits.
We then want to calculate the price which we'll write and a helper method.
So we're just gonna say in total equals calculate price on the items and then we'll print out that total
cost.
Now we also write this help a method for the calculate price that uses the visitor so the calculate
price method we can declare up top.
You can say private static int calculate price.
And it's gonna take an array of item elements
items
and what we're gonna do first is we're gonna create a shopping cart visitor.
So we're just going to say shopping cart visitor equals new shopping cart visible.
Simple concrete class we're then going to say create a local variable for the sum to keep a running
tally.
We're gonna go through the each items in the array and for each item in the array we're gonna call the
accept method and pass in our visitor.
Right.
So this is the key right here we're gonna say some equals some plus item that except passing in the
visitor that we just created.
Right.
So now we can add functionality to our object structure without affecting the object structure.
We now have this except taking the visitor and then the last thing we can do is we can just return the
sum
like that.
And that does it for our program but he had noticed a separation between the visitor and the object
structure.
We have our elements we create our visitor we pass a visitor in to the elements which then in turn call
the concrete visitors we'll see if this will build and then we'll go ahead and run our client.
And so we run our client on Main.
You'll see that we're able to keep we're able to calculate the total cost for the two books and the
two fruits in our array twenty plus ninety five plus twenty plus twenty five is one sixty five all right.
So you can go ahead or 160 I'm sorry so that's the visitor pattern.
A nice separation and added functionality to an object structure.
Thank you.